# Utility Classes

This guide will include a rundown of the utility classes whose methods are implemented in the robot's functionality. There are three objectives with these utility classes:
1. Optimize states of the robot's subsystems through simplification of state expressions.
2. Provide conversion factors and constants for compatability between two different brands of configurations.
3. General utility methods that are used in localization, e.g. network table accessibility, specific game information and measurements (AprilTag locations).

> [!NOTE]
> These utility classes are technically part of the robot software, in contrast to the vendor dependencies that are installed as an add-on to the robot code through Gradle.

## [OptimizeModuleState.java](../../src/main/java/frc/lib/math/OptimizeModuleState.java)

This utility class provides methods to improve efficiency in the robot's swerve module's rotation component, namely to place the rotation of each module within a 0-to-360-degree continuous scope. This allows for more accurate identification of the swerve module's actual rotational state based on a 360-degree scale.

## [CANSparkUtil.java](../../src/main/java/frc/lib/util/CANSparkUtil.java)

This utility class provides methods to minimize CAN bus utilization through reducing updates from nonessential components of state data, effectively implemented in each swerve module's rotational motor controller.

## [COTSFalconSwerveConstants.java](../../src/main/java/frc/lib/util/COTSFalconSwerveConstants.java)

This utility class provides database values for the specifications of different swerve modules, including the SDS MK4-L3.5 swerve configuration that Rowdy24's swerve modules are manufactured to. These values are used to calculate conversion factors when initializing swerve module class types in direct robot software implementation.

## [LimelightHelpers.java](../../src/main/java/frc/lib/util/LimelightHelpers.java)

Most of this utility class is unused. However, all the NetworkTable data generated by what Limelight hardware detects that is accessed by the robot code is via methods in this utility class, e.g. MegaTag2 localization data, target-to-robot vector, offsets, latency.

## [SwerveModuleConstants.java](../../src/main/java/frc/lib/util/SwerveModuleConstants.java)

This utility class provides a data structure to store these specifications of a swerve module:
- Drive Motor ID
- Rotational Motor ID
- CANCoder Encoder ID
- Rotational offset

Implementation of this data structure is for the simplification of swerve module identification.

## [TagLocation.java](../../src/main/java/frc/lib/util/TagLocation.java)

This enum class provides cartesian coordinates for the AprilTag locations on the game field. These coordinates are used to determine the robot's position on the field based on target-to-robot vectors and MegaTag2 localization.